test/README.md, before:

# README for the AppOpticsAPM Test Suite

  * [Prerequisits](#prerequisits)
    * [Linux](#linux)
    * [Services](#services)
    * [Oboe](#oboe)
  * [Defining components of a test run](#defining-components-of-a-test-run)
  * [Running Tests](#running-tests)
    * [Run all tests](#run-all-tests)
    * [Run some tests](#run-some-tests)
    * [Run one test suite, test file, or test](#run-one-test-suite,-test-file,-or-test)
  * [Duplication (◔_◔) and Missing Tests ( •̆௰•̆ )](#duplication-(◔_◔)-and-missing-tests-(-•̆௰•̆-))
  

The tests for this gem focus on sending the correct information
to the data collector as well as dealing with exceptions when 
using the gem.

Many of them are set up in the style of integration tests and rely
on external services or background jobs.

We are providing a Docker setup that makes it easy to run test suites 
and debug while writing code. The gem code is shared as a volume in the 
docker container so that any changes to the code are reflected 
immediatly.
 
## Prerequisits

The following are prerequists which will be satified automatically when
using the provided Docker test setup.

### Linux
The appoptics_apm gem only runs on Linux because the c-library that 
sends data to the collector is only available on Linux.

Therefor the tests need to run in Linux and debugging needs to be
done in Linux. 

Please see further down on how to run a single test.

### Services
The tests require different services to be running, mainly:
* mysql
* postgresql
* redis
* memcached
* rabbitmq
* mongo

### Oboe
Oboe is the c-library that rovides the methods to send data to 
the collector.
When using the gem from source it needs to be installed once on a 
new platform:
```bash
bundle exec rake fetch_ext_deps
bundle exec rake clean
bundle exec rake compile 
```
It installs automatically when using the docker test setup or the compiled gem.

## Defining components of a test run
A single test run is defined by: 
* the ruby version
* the gemfile
* the database type

This means that the same tests can be run with different ruby versions 
or databases. And, the selected gemfile determines which test files will be run.

See `.travis.yml` for the components of the test matrix.

## Running Tests
Since the tests need to run in Linux there is docker setup for 
the Mac users and it probably makes sense for Linux users as well,
because it takes care of starting the required services.

### Run all tests
```bash
bundle exec rake docker_tests
```
It is also possible to run them like this:
```bash
cd run_tests
docker-compose run --service-ports ruby_appoptics /code/ruby-appoptics/test/run_tests/ruby_setup.sh test
```
Be aware that starting the container can take a long time (>2 hours 
on a slowish Mac) if the Docker image needs to be created. In 
this case it will install three versions of Ruby, which is a pretty 
slow process.
 
### Run some tests
In this case we want to start the docker image and then define 
which tests to run from within.
```bash
bundle exec rake docker
```

check out the options:
```bash
run_tests/run_tests.sh -h 
```

Example: Run the framework tests with ruby 2.5.1 
```bash
run_tests/run_tests.sh -r 2.5.1 -g gemfiles/frameworks.gemfile
```

### Run one test from suite, a specific test file, or a specific test
While coding and for debugging it may be helpful to run fewer tests.
There are 2 options, either use the `run_tests` command or setup the 
env and use `ruby -I test`

One test from suite:
```bash
run_tests/run_tests.sh -r 2.5.1 -g gemfiles/frameworks.gemfile -n 1
```

One file:
```bash
rbenv global 2.4.4
export BUNDLE_GEMFILE=gemfiles/delayed_job.gemfile
export DBTYPE=mysql2       # optional, defaults to postgresql
bundle exec ruby -I test queues/delayed_job*_test.rb
```

A specific test:
```bash
rbenv global 2.5.1
export BUNDLE_GEMFILE=gemfiles/libraries.gemfile
export DBTYPE=mysql2
bundle exec ruby -I test instrumentation/moped_test.rb -n /drop_collection/
```

## pry-byebug for debugging

The gem is setup to be debugged with `pry` and `pry-byebug`, add the following lines in the code for a break:
```ruby
require 'pry'
require 'pry-byebug'
byebug
```
See here for docu: https://github.com/deivid-rodriguez/pry-byebug

## Duplication (◔_◔) and missing tests ( •̆௰•̆ )
Sorry, it takes some time to run all the tests. There is duplication as 
well as omissions. The test code is a bit of a jungle, so for now the 
aim is to get good coverage for added and refactored code and clean up
tests whenever it makes sense.

If you are contributing, please make sure all the tests pass and add 
tests for your code, so that it can't be broken.

For questions with testing please contact the main contributor.

Commit message:

update README, switch tests in travis
[AO-8260]

test/README.md, after:

# README for the AppOpticsAPM Test Suite

  * [Prerequisits](#prerequisits)
    * [Linux](#linux)
    * [Services](#services)
    * [Oboe](#oboe)
  * [Defining components of a test run](#defining-components-of-a-test-run)
  * [Running Tests](#running-tests)
    * [Run all tests](#run-all-tests)
    * [Run some tests](#run-some-tests)
    * [Run one test from suite, a specific test file, or a specific test](#run-one-test-from-suite,-a-specific-test-file,-or-a-specific-test)
  * [pry-byebug for debugging](#pry-byebug-for-debugging)
  * [Duplication (◔_◔) and missing tests ( •̆௰•̆ )](#duplication-(◔_◔)-and-missing-tests-(-•̆௰•̆-))
  
The tests for this gem focus on sending the correct information
to the data collector as well as dealing with exceptions when 
using the gem.

Many of them are set up in the style of integration tests and rely
on external services or background jobs.

We are providing a Docker setup that makes it easy to run test suites 
and debug while writing code. The gem code is shared as a volume in the 
docker container so that any changes to the code are reflected 
immediatly.
 
## Prerequisits

The following are prerequists which will be satified automatically when
using the provided Docker test setup.

### Linux
The appoptics_apm gem only runs on Linux because the c-library that 
sends data to the collector is only available on Linux.

Therefor the tests need to run in Linux and debugging needs to be
done in Linux. 

Please see further down on how to run a single test.

### Services
The tests require different services to be running, mainly:
* mysql
* postgresql
* redis
* memcached
* rabbitmq
* mongo

### Oboe
Oboe is the c-library that rovides the methods to send data to 
the collector.
When using the gem from source it needs to be installed once on a 
new platform:
```bash
bundle exec rake fetch_ext_deps
bundle exec rake clean
bundle exec rake compile 
```
It installs automatically when using the docker test setup or the compiled gem.

## Defining components of a test run
A single test run is defined by: 
* the ruby version
* the gemfile
* the database type

This means that the same tests can be run with different ruby versions 
or databases. And, the selected gemfile determines which test files will be run.

See `.travis.yml` for the components of the test matrix.

## Running Tests
Since the tests need to run in Linux there is docker setup for 
the Mac users and it probably makes sense for Linux users as well,
because it takes care of starting the required services.

### Run all tests
```bash
bundle exec rake docker_tests
```
It is also possible to run them like this:
```bash
cd run_tests
docker-compose run --service-ports ruby_appoptics /code/ruby-appoptics/test/run_tests/ruby_setup.sh test
```
Be aware that starting the container takes longer if the Docker image needs to be created first 
(+10-15 minutes), because it needs to install three versions of Ruby, which is a pretty 
slow process. It is recommended to keep the appoptics_apm image and only replace 
it if there is a change with the Ruby versions required for the tests. 
 
### Run some tests
In this case we want to start the docker image and then define 
which tests to run from within.
```bash
bundle exec rake docker
```

check out the options:
```bash
run_tests/run_tests.sh -h 
```

Example: Run the framework tests with ruby 2.5.1 
```bash
run_tests/run_tests.sh -r 2.5.1 -g gemfiles/frameworks.gemfile
```

### Run one test from suite, a specific test file, or a specific test
While coding and for debugging it may be helpful to run fewer tests.
There are 2 options, either use the `run_tests` command or setup the 
env and use `ruby -I test`

One test from suite:
```bash
run_tests/run_tests.sh -r 2.5.1 -g gemfiles/frameworks.gemfile -n 1
```

One file:
```bash
rbenv global 2.4.4
export BUNDLE_GEMFILE=gemfiles/delayed_job.gemfile
export DBTYPE=mysql2       # optional, defaults to postgresql
bundle exec ruby -I test queues/delayed_job*_test.rb
```

A specific test:
```bash
rbenv global 2.5.1
export BUNDLE_GEMFILE=gemfiles/libraries.gemfile
export DBTYPE=mysql2
bundle exec ruby -I test instrumentation/moped_test.rb -n /drop_collection/
```

## pry-byebug for debugging

The gem is setup to be debugged with `pry` and `pry-byebug`, add the following lines in the code for a break:
```ruby
require 'pry'
require 'pry-byebug'
byebug
```
See here for docu: https://github.com/deivid-rodriguez/pry-byebug

## Duplication (◔_◔) and missing tests ( •̆௰•̆ )
Sorry, it takes some time to run all the tests (31 test suites, approx. 40  
minutes in local docker container or travis with 5 workers). There is 
duplication as well as omissions. The test code is a bit of a jungle, so 
for now the aim is to get good coverage for added and refactored code and 
clean up tests whenever it makes sense.

If you are contributing, please make sure all the tests pass and add 
tests for your code, so that it can't be broken.

For questions with testing please contact the main contributor.
